Now we talk this time, this teaching to causal Mahayana and the result Mahayana, we are talking
about nature that we don't normally see all the time.
Don't kind of know, is ignored even though it's so close with us, it's so close with us.
This nature is known as Buddha-nature. It is shining stars in our heart center to everyone.
It is shining galaxies, galaxies in our heart, the indestructible stars, indestructible galaxies
that are within our heart center.
Our nature state, this is what talking about the causal Yana and Mahayana started from there.
Now our goal, the practical goal of Buddhism is to reveal that shining star, star completely
brilliant as Buddha did, Buddha Shakyamuni did,
as Guru Pema Sambhav did, as Jairan Zavada Awalaki Hara did, as Tara did.
We can, we should do that because we have the same nature.
This nature, even though we don't know this, identify it, you mean know or identify that, but we
are always guided with this nature.
All the time, we are with the light of this nature. Nature, we are always warned of this nature,
whether we knew and whether we don't know.
No. That was always the great master's often said, and the teaching said, and the great master
again, I'm sure many of you heard,
Palma Kendi Parthi Sharam but also he said so many times, we are with this nature or whether we
know and whether we don't know.
It's not something mystery that we don't can feel anything. It's something only that we didn't
notice it.
We can in a way, it let go pass always, and we're looking something else, and looking something
else always, and we miss the point.
That nature is, what is that? That power and energy and the dense nature of this, is the energy of
this nature is known as love, loving kindness,
compassion, wisdom, intelligence, joy and respect and appreciation. Those basic things is not
mystery. Love and compassion and kindness, joy and appreciation,
they are so basic, so, so general. It's like sunshine. It's like water. It's like air. Without this
, we cannot survive.
But yet, we don't can't really appreciate and honor this and looking something else.
This love and compassion and wisdom and intelligence, these are the out coming power of this Buddha
nature.
This shining star that I said in the heart center, which is residing. This is the nature, what we
have.
Even the worst time of our difficult time, we have this nature, the nature during the left. Even
the worst and the difficult,
miserable times of the human being or the sentient being go through, we always have this nature.
There's no one who is out of love, out of compassion, out of the wisdom, intelligence. Everyone has
that.
It is the shining star. They are the brilliant, radiating qualities. It's guiding their every
movement.
Even this has so many kind of all the different negative forces, such as emotion, negative and ego.
All that disturbing one approach, but it bounced back. It's coming up. You have that quality.
This is the Buddha nature. And now to discover this nature, then Buddha taught through technique.
Way kind of more graduation way, very general way and a very kind of instant race.
So this graduation way, technique is known as in Mahayana, causal.
That means when you plant the seed on the garden, nice garden, garden, and then we continue taking
care of that,
taking care of that with your effort, and then autumn or after a while, it brings the result
through.
So it is a continuing taking care of that. And these are like more cause, working with the cause,
working with the condition,
working with the seed, and let it grow and develop that. That is known as causal Mahayana.
And what we have to do, both have to do what? Whether it is the causal yana and the result Mahayana
,
we have to develop the same motivation, joy and appreciation, both each other.
Those are, as I already said, it is outreaching light of Buddha nature.
They are, I always kind of thought, this Buddha bodhicitta, joy and love and compassion is like, is
what you call here.
Jacob's ladder. What is Jacob's ladder?
Jacob's ladder, he don't know? J-A-C-O-B. Jacob's ladder, L-A-D-D-E-R, I believe.
I hope so. Jacob's ladder. You know that?
That's it. This love and compassion wisdom is ladder of the Buddha nature.
It is come from the sun, sun of the Buddha nature and rascing us.
Rascuing individually the trouble or the difficult times.
Or it is ushering that. So this is what love and compassion, wisdom is so important.
Whether you follow with the result Mahayana and whether we are practicing as a result Mahayana, we
all need this.
So with this understanding, with this understanding, then walking with joyful effort and bring the
realization gradually, such as known as the path and ten boomies.
I think many of you know. And then reaching the enlightenment one, gradually that is known as the
causal teaching or the teaching that will make the cause to develop full bloom results.
Result of probation status. Then the second teaching is known as the result Mahayana.
Result. Result is what? Result is the result.
I think result is a result. Also it can be like a result. R-E-S-O-R-T, I think. It's a result.
Result of a result.
No, what are you going to use? That result Mahayana. That means we are not waiting for long process
to gain that achievement or the result.
Instantly we are jumping to the lap of luxuries. Immediately jumping. That means which lap? Lap or
luxuries of the Buddha natural.
Immediately you are jumping. And that is known as the result. Even though it moves, you get all
those five parts and ten boomies, but it went so fast.
So it is like more result. Result. So this is the two teachings.
Both need similar attitude, similar intention, similar go up. Go to that.
Which is bodhicata, the kindness, the compassion, joy, and appreciation, all those beautiful things
.
And then reaching the realization. So these two results, two teachings.
A result, a causal Mahayana, a result Mahayana. Which is what that is not a terminology. Maybe you
are more familiar with that.
And that is known as Sutra Mahayana and Tantra Mahayana.
So Sutra Mahayana is a causal Mahayana and Tantra Mahayana is a result Mahayana.